Step 1: Create a VPC
Open the VPC Dashboard:

Go to the AWS Management Console.
Open the VPC Dashboard from the Services menu.
Create a VPC:

Click on "Create VPC".
Select "VPC only".
Give your VPC a name tag (e.g., CassandraVPC).
Set the IPv4 CIDR block (e.g., 10.0.0.0/16).
Choose "No IPv6 CIDR block".
Set the Tenancy to "Default".
Click on "Create VPC".
Step 2: Create Subnets
Create Subnets:
In the VPC Dashboard, select "Subnets".
Click on "Create subnet".
Select your VPC (e.g., CassandraVPC).
Choose an Availability Zone (e.g., us-east-1a).
Give your subnet a name tag (e.g., CassandraSubnet).
Set the IPv4 CIDR block (e.g., 10.0.1.0/24).
Click on "Create subnet".
Step 3: Create an Internet Gateway
Create Internet Gateway:

In the VPC Dashboard, select "Internet Gateways".
Click on "Create internet gateway".
Give it a name tag (e.g., CassandraIGW).
Click on "Create internet gateway".
Attach Internet Gateway:

Select the newly created Internet Gateway.
Click on "Actions" and select "Attach to VPC".
Select your VPC (e.g., CassandraVPC).
Click on "Attach internet gateway".
Step 4: Create a Route Table
Create Route Table:

In the VPC Dashboard, select "Route Tables".
Click on "Create route table".
Give it a name tag (e.g., CassandraRouteTable).
Select your VPC (e.g., CassandraVPC).
Click on "Create route table".
Add Route to Route Table:

Select the newly created Route Table.
Click on "Routes" and then "Edit routes".
Click on "Add route".
Set the Destination to 0.0.0.0/0 and the Target to your Internet Gateway (e.g., CassandraIGW).
Click on "Save changes".
Associate Route Table with Subnet:

Select the Route Table.
Click on "Subnet associations" and then "Edit subnet associations".
Select your subnet (e.g., CassandraSubnet).
Click on "Save".
Step 5: Create a Security Group
Create Security Group:

In the VPC Dashboard, select "Security Groups".
Click on "Create security group".
Give it a name (e.g., CassandraSG).
Set the VPC (e.g., CassandraVPC).
Add a description (e.g., Security group for Cassandra).
Click on "Create security group".
Add Inbound Rules:

Select the newly created Security Group.
Click on "Inbound rules" and then "Edit inbound rules".
Add the following rules:
Type: Custom TCP Rule, Protocol: TCP, Port Range: 9042, Source: Custom, 0.0.0.0/0 (for Cassandra client connections)
Type: SSH, Protocol: TCP, Port Range: 22, Source: My IP (or a specific IP range for SSH access)
Click on "Save rules".
Step 6: Create an S3 Bucket (Optional)
Create S3 Bucket:
Go to the S3 Dashboard.
Click on "Create bucket".
Give your bucket a name (e.g., cassandra-backup-bucket).
Choose a region.
Click on "Create bucket".
Step 7: Launch an EC2 Instance with Bitnami Cassandra Image
Launch Instance:

Go to the EC2 Dashboard.
Click on "Launch Instance".
Choose the Bitnami Cassandra image from the AWS Marketplace.
Select an instance type (e.g., t2.micro for testing, m5.large for production).
Configure Instance:

Configure instance details:
Network: Select your VPC (e.g., CassandraVPC).
Subnet: Select your subnet (e.g., CassandraSubnet).
Auto-assign Public IP: Enable.
Add Storage as needed.
Add Tags (optional).
Configure Security Group:

Select the existing security group (e.g., CassandraSG).
Review and Launch:

Review your instance configuration.
Click on "Launch".
Select an existing key pair or create a new one for SSH access.
Click on "Launch Instances".
Step 8: Connect to Your Instance
Connect via SSH:
From the EC2 Dashboard, select your instance.
Click on "Connect".
Follow the instructions to connect via SSH using your key pair.
Step 9: Verify Cassandra Installation
        Access Cassandra:
        sudo systemctl status bitnami
You can also use cqlsh to connect to Cassandra:
        cqlsh
